Resource Capital Funds has sold engineering and consulting firm Ausenco for about $900 million in a deal
with a US billionaire and private equity firms looking to boost their exposure to battery minerals and energy
transition.
The $US578 million sale comes nine years after RCF took the Australian mining-focused engineering firm
private in a deal valued at about $150 million ($US94.4 million) and removed the company from the ASX.
Ausenco’s new owners include billionaire Todd Boehly’s Eldridge Industries, which has a share in Major
League Baseball team Los Angeles Dodgers and film studio A24. Brightstar Capital and the multibillion-dollar
Claure Group, which owns a stake in Brightstar, are the other new owners.
Marcelo Claure immediately declared his intention to use Ausenco to help turn Latin America into a major
force in lithium as well as copper.
Ausenco has been a key plank of the investment portfolio at James McClements’ RCF since the Australian
private equity firm’s original investment in 2014.
The company was founded in Brisbane in 1991 and now has about 3000 employees across offices in 15
countries, where its projects include wind and solar farms.
Ausenco has built four major copper concentrators, including at the Carrapateena project in South Australia
that BHP acquired this year as part of its $9.6 billion acquisition of OZ Minerals.
It has also built copper concentrators in Peru and in Chile with the red metal expected to be in high demand
as part of electrification of global economies.
Mr McClements, who is chairman of ASX-listed Mineral Resources, said Ausenco had been a perfect fit with
RCF’s strategy of growing mining businesses while generating strong returns.
Ausenco co-founder, Zimi Meka, will remain chief executive, a board member and retain an ownership stake.
In a statement Mr Boehly and Eldridge co-founders Tony Minella and Duncan Bagshaw said: “We invest in
what people need and what people want ... Ausenco has worked around the world to deliver minerals
critical to nearly every aspect of our lives and to the ongoing energy transition.”
Mr Claure, founder and chief executive of his global investment firm, intends to join the Ausenco board and
to double down on its footprint in Latin America.
“With the shift to more sustainable energy gaining momentum, Latin America will have a key role to play as
the main producing region for essential minerals, such as copper and lithium,” he said.
“Given Ausenco’s strong presence and pipeline of projects in the region, we believe the company will be at
the forefront of this transition, actively contributing to the electrification of the world.”
One of the hottest lithium assets in Latin America is the Grota do Cirilo mine in Brazil owned by Canadian
company Sigma Lithium but considered up for grabs.
The mine has been compared in size to Liontown Resources’ Kathleen Valley project in Western Australia.